---
title: "Why is it so hard to breathe healthy in Hamilton?"
categories: About
permalink: /FreshAir/
classes: wide
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/FreshAir.png
  overlay_filter: 0.5 # same as adding an opacity of 0.5 to a black background
---

I don't just mean fighting off the regular cold and flu, that's hard too. What I mean is why does my body attack itself here? 

Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton. I love it and I hate it. I don't want to leave, but is it even possible to stay with the amount of air pollution? Is this city going to kill me? 

When I was growing up, I had brutal eczema, strep throat, and headaches. The most remarkable feeling was the general unwellness. I thought I was just a sensitive kid. I never wanted to go outside - I had a headache. Something about being here gave me a headache. I have a headache. 

But then I went away - to Kingston, Ottawa, around the world. And not "all of a sudden" because it wasn't sudden... but somewhere along the way, my unwellness disappeared.

Away from Hamilton, I never had a headache. 

Then COVID happened and I returned for longer than a weekend visit home. And then the headaches began again. Only this time I had something to compare them to. And I was older so I could recognize and verbalize my thoughts and feelings. 

I didn't want to breathe the air. 

One day I had a particularly horrible sleep - something was telling me to close my windows. So I did. I was suffocating with them open and closed. Weeks later after researching possible causes, a kind stranger in the Try Me Again Later chat responded to my request for a mapping of air quality. Why would I have needed to close my window? Why do I have the instinctive need for fresh air? I had to search back two weeks, but then I found it: the night in question had a massive, remarkable spike of sulphites in the air. I went to get a personal air filter that day and it's been running non stop since. BUt it can only help so much. It can't filter the air outdoors. 

The Hamilton I grew up with isn't the one that exists now. There weren't as many non-profits who were working to make the city better. Those are all relatively new. Clean Air Hamilton didn't exist. And the group is doing a fantastic job. But how effective can you be as a group if what you're up against is a massive behemoth of constantly producing air pollution? 

Anecdotally of course, there are so many pauses and causes for concern. Why are the feelings of unwellness and noxious smells always worse on a grey, foggy day? How come the air quality seems to be worse on weekends? 

I didn't have COVID until a year after I moved back to Hamilton in 2022. That was two years into the pandemic. Then the headaches started again. But then more started happening: my iron tanked, my blood sugars were all over the place, night sweats persisted, neuropathy... My healthcare team started treating me like I had... diabetes? I'm developing Type 1 diabetes symptoms now!? Not even the kind I can control, but the one where my pancreas goes on the fritz and my body starts attaching itself?! 

But hormonal issues being caused by air pollution doesn't stop at showing up as diabetes symptomes. Allergies, asthma, insomnia, eczema, PCOS, cancer (to name a few) are also linked to air pollution. Anecdotably, talking to any woman of reproductive age in Hamilton brings up mutual struggles that seemingly have no end or cure. Aggressive allergies that show up as rashes on the skin, eye sensitivity, a need for something, something - anything - to cure the relentless allergies. PCOS and hormonal imbalances that cannot be addressed or resolved by normal, mild responses like teas and hormonal regulators prescribed by doctors and naturopaths. The inexplicable way that multiple people in the same city can have insomnia and a raging head on the same night? The curious development of pernicious eczema in multiple people. What the heck? 

No, I'm not the only one in this city. 

But do we know that all of our symptoms are linked together under a common cause? Probably not. Are we mobilizing together against the cause? Some people are, under amazing groups who fight to protect our clean air. But perhaps without greater numbers, their work has not enough gas to create immediate, urgent, change. 

Let me ask you something: How much do you care about not just your long-term health, but your day-to-day health? Are you able to function with your symptoms or are you at your wits end, like me? 

<a href="mailto:freethefoot.hamilton@gmail.com">Contact me</a> if you have a story about how air pollution has affected you. 