---
title: "Anemia"
categories: Nutrition
permalink: /Anemia/
classes: wide
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/Anemia.png
  overlay_filter: 0.5 # same as adding an opacity of 0.5 to a black background
---


Growing up, I wasn't as athletic and severe fatigue didn't hold me back from reading. So I wasn't diagnosed with <a href="https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/health/conditions-and-diseases/irondeficiency-anemia">anemia</a> until later in life. 

As an adult, it’s easier to tell when I’m becoming anemic even without a blood test. Every effort starts to feel impossible - even trying to think is hard. It starts to feel like I've crossed an energy threshold and my body is dipping into deeper power sources. 

Why does it happen? I'm not 100% sure, but after so many years, my anemia seems to be caused by <i>the combination</i> of high physical, mental, and emotional stress factors. This can happen any time, such as in the midst of a thru-hike! 

I started to feel fatigued this fall and soon came down with a cold. Then things got more complicated. I couldn't seem to shake it or any subsequent illness I got in a very short timeframe.

Normally, I take iron supplements but this time it wasn't so easy. So here is the combination of steps I took to restore my iron (and heal): 

<h2 style="color: green;">Diet</h2>

I'm still taking iron supplements, but <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8rjccoRDvJQ">Ayurvedic sources</a> have given me some more ideas, such as ingesting dietary iron sources when they're warm:

<ul>
    <li>Sautéed spinach with toppings like garlic and lemon zest.</li>
    <li>Beef liver</li> 
    <li>Hot water with honey and lemon</li>
    <li>Pre-mixed green smoothies containing 3.1mg iron</li>
    <li>Steamed beets and the steamed beet water</li> 
    <li>Elderberry syrup</li>
</ul>

<h2 style="color: green;">Exercise</h2>

Heavy workouts are still tough to do, so my movements are mild but important to keep oxygen (and what iron I do have) circulatin throughout my body:
 
<ul>
    <li>Moving my neck and shoulders while laying down or sitting</li> 
    <li>I Y T exercises</li>
    <li>Alternating walking for 15-20 minutes and resting for 10 minutes, for max 1 hour.</li> 
    <li>Gentle pilates</li>
</ul>

<h2 style="color: green;">Other</h2>

These strategies are meant to help my immune system while building up my iron stores: 

<ul>
    <li><a href="https://vidyaliving.com/natural-beauty-series-oil-pulling-neem-2/">Oil pulling</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://www.healthforlifend.com/blog/doctors-blog/naturopathic-medicine-wet-sock-treatment/">Wet Sock Technique</a></li>
    <li>Chamomile tea - Even though chamomile is sometimes thought to inhibit iron absorption, I felt much better when I switched out other teas for chamomile.</li>
</ul>

Sometimes the high iron diet conflicted with other needs, such as avoiding histamines. But overall, this extra effort (of paying greater attention to my diet and habits) struck the right balance and has helped along positive healing! 