---
title: "What will Pilates do for me?"
categories: About
permalink: /Pilates/
classes: wide
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/workoutequipment.png
  overlay_filter: 0.5 # same as adding an opacity of 0.5 to a black background
---

Here are 5 answers to the question!
 
In general, Pilates is a bunch of exercises - an exercise system - that can be combined to develop core stability and the mobility of major joints (amoung other things!)

<h2 style="color: green;">1. A workout for mind and body</h2> 
<p>The literal Pilates philosophy is "Mens sana in corpore sano" or "A sound mind is a sound body". Related to that, it focuses on the quality of movements rather than quanity or repititions. Unlike exercises that light up your nervous system - like cardio or weightlifting - so much of pilates is slowing down and tuning into whether muscles are "turning on". Waking up a muscle takes an underestimated amount of brainpower and the exercises (and therefore calories burned) of underused muscles are greater stressors than for well-trained muscles.</p> 

<h2 style="color: green;">2. Work towards muscle length and flexibility</h2>
<p>While muscles are contracted in pilates, these exercises are combined with lengthening of the same muscles. This combination is key to training and maintaining muscle tone AND flexibility.</p>

<h2 style="color: green;">3. Core strength</h2>
<p>Some pilates exercises focus on contracting the core; however, there is a much greater focus on core stabilization - using the deep transverse abdominal muscle to keep steady as muscles contractions happen in the hips, shoulders, arms, and legs. Stability IS core strength.</p>

<h2 style="color: green;">4. Even body conditioning; injury prevention</h2>
<p>Pilates is generally practiced as a full body system, which helps to prevent injury as no single muscle group receives undue attention. The whole body workout and focus on core stability helps to prevent injury when practicing other exercise forms as well.</p>

<h2 style="color: green;">5. Learning optimal movement patterns</h2>
<p>Everyone has their preferred styles of movement. But sometimes, due to injury or sedentary lifestyles, our body's create compensatory patterns to reduce pain. Pilates is a gentle way to reestablish healthy movement patterns - you can do it laying down, seated, or standing. And all of the movements can be regressed to be low impact. Sometimes you might see pilates exercises that echo some movements recommended by physiotherapists and other body workers to help relieve pain and retrain after injury.</p> 






