---
title: "The Difference Between Services" 
categories: About
permalink: /DifferentServices/
classes: wide
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/ServicesFST.png
  overlay_filter: 0.5 # same as adding an opacity of 0.5 to a black background
---

This blog post describes my services in more detail so you can know which one(s) are right for you!
All sessions are done in person and I bring my equipment to you.

<p>For more information regarding pricing, how each session is structured, and any other inquiries, please contact me via <a href="mailto:freethefoot.hamilton@gmail.com">email</a>.</p> 

<h2 style="color: green;">Fascia Stretch Therapy</h2>

Anyone can benefit from FST! We can spend time on targeted areas that are very tight for you or do a full body stretch session. For more information read my blog post on [FST]({{ site.baseurl }}/AboutFST/).

<h2 style="color: green;">Foundational Gymnastics</h2>
Foundational Gymnastics is great for EVERYONE! And teaching it is my speciality! 

These sessions will specifically focus on improving your mobility and flexibility. Areas of improvement can include the splits and pancake, handstands, toe-touches, twists, back bridges, balance, hand-eye coordination and more. 

<p>Additionally, if you're into exploring "movement" (stemming from schools like Ido Portal, Fighting Monkey, The Foot Collective, Animal Flow and more) then a Foundational Gymnastics session is for you!<p> 

<h2 style="color: green;">Pilates</h2>

Book a personalized "mat" pilates class with me. This is an excellent option if you need low impact mobilization exercises - particularly if you're recovering from injury, muscle overuse, or looking to wake up muscles you don't normally use. For more information read my blog post on [Pilates]({{ site.baseurl }}/Pilates/)


<h2 style="color: green;">Personal Training</h2>
Personal Training is intended to focus on goals such as weightloss, strength training, and power gains. However, my equipment is <b>light</b> and may include an exercise ball, toning ball, light kettlebells and weights, elastic bands, balance foam, foam roller and more. But if you have a home gym with heavier equipment, we can certainly work with that! 
