---
title: "Let's talk about fitness culture..."
categories: About
permalink: /Pilates/
classes: wide
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/workoutequipment.png
  overlay_filter: 0.5 # same as adding an opacity of 0.5 to a black background
---

To me, more movement is always better - humans need to express themselves and expression is movement. It's as simple as that. Even if we remain still, our bodies contain movement we cannot control: our blood pumps in our bodies, our brain sends signals out constantly. We cannot control this movement. It is life. And what's more, we often need to express it further. And it does not have to be perfect. It just has to be functional.

Unfortunately, the health and fitness world has narrowed its reputation into one where perfection is important. More unfortunately, this alienates a lot of people. I understand the point: proper technique is a very solid foundation. If you're an adavanced mover, like an athelete, proper technique is incredibly important to prevent acute and chronic injury. It's also important for all people healing from injuries. Furthermore, proper technique is also key for day-to-day movement, moves as simple as picking up a kid to prevent throwing out one's back or offsetting how much time we spend at computers. Unfortunately, the techniques practices in gym settings are more often for aesthetic reasons than functional movement. 

But I would argue that even people who thrive in this environment of perfectionism and grrrrrr-STRENGTH, STILL find themselves craving self-expression and interpersonal connection that contemporary gyms aren't always suited to provide. That's not to say change isn't coming. If you have a look at some of the creative programming coming out of premiere fitness schools like the CHEK institute, it's evident that the times might be changing a bit. Maybe it's enough, but our communities do not have as many accessible functional movement programs as is required to meet population needs.

This applies to movement studios like pilates and yoga as well. Recall that the Western world appropriated the yoga practice from the South East Asian world where it was deeply religious. Many people may practice yoga in a deeply religious fashion, exploring its principles and gaining benefit from that level of connection. But many others do not. Yoga and pilates are amazing exercises - people see genuine results in mobility, flexibility, and strength, that cannot be denied - but frequently, their aesthetic takes precedence over functional movement. And it certainly takes precedence over play. 

When the focus becomes OPTIMAL movement, over movement and play, then one may become blind to the virtues of gyms and studios, if all they offer is aethetic perfectionism. 