---
title:  "What is FST?"
categories: About
permalink: /AboutFST/
classes: wide
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/ServicesFST.png
  overlay_filter: 0.5 # same as adding an opacity of 0.5 to a black background
---

<b>On a basic level, fascia stretch therapy is an assisted stretching technique performed by an FST practitioner on a client. It helps to mobilize fascia - which is connective tissue.</b> 

Hi there, my name is Renata and I'm the Founder of FreeTheFoot - and I'm a Level 1 Fascial Stretch Therapist. 

Fascia is a tissue in our body that provides stability to our muscles and organs. For example, when we perform a repeated movement, our bodies lay down connective tissue to make that movement easier. On one hand, this can be great because fascia helps conserve energy. On the other hand, if that movement is bad for us, then fascia locks into place. 

In 2017, I received FST for the first time. The relief was so profound from such a simple move that I was hooked! It didn't solve all my problems, but it certainly solved one problem! 

Soon after, I completed a Fascial Stretch Therapy Level 1 course with <a href="https://www.stretchtowin.com/page/what-is-fst">Stretch To Win</a> and re-certified in 2020. When I got back from the week-long course, I practiced FST on everyone. Some people were as crazy about it as I was. But even the skeptics said they felt more relaxed and had a good sleep afterward. 

How does FST relate to FreeTheFoot? FreeTheFoot takes FST principles and applies them to physical AND social body. Yes, FST can help each of us on a personal level by improving personal wellness. This is awesome. 

And if we look at our communities as a social body, we can apply the same principle. Every day, we are somehow working towards becoming more efficient as a city. For us, in Canada, this seems to mean more cars, concrete, and being indoors. Over time, we've come to realize that in large doses, these patterns are problematic. FreeTheFoot proposes to shake up this pattern and replace it with better ones.